[docs] Add link preview docs (#38676)
expo/expo: docs/pages/router/reference/link-preview.mdx

---

> title: Link Preview

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Link preview
```

> description: Learn how to add a preview to your link on iOS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn how to add a preview to your link on iOS when using Expo Router.
```

Let's add the missing context for SEO.

---

import { ContentSpotlight } from '~/ui/components/ContentSpotlight';

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="A video presenting the link preview feature in Expo Router."

>   file="/expo-router/link-preview.mp4"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  file="expo-router/link-preview.mp4"
```

The video is not showing on the page. Let's fix the path above.

<img width="1139" height="698" alt="CleanShot 2025-08-11 at 17 43 58" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/502ec133-42f5-4a6d-947d-517bb0f1d191" />

/>

Link preview (also known as "Peek and Pop") is a feature commonly used on iOS to show users a preview popup of the screen for a link.
This guide will show you how to add and customize a link preview for your app on iOS.

> If you have a link in your app, you can add a link preview to it by replacing the link's content with a `<Link.Trigger>` and adding the `<Link.Preview>` component to it. This will create a preview of the page that the link points to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have a link in your app, you can add a link preview to it by replacing the link's content with a [`Link.Trigger`](/versions/latest/sdk/router/#linktrigger) and adding the [`Link.Preview`](/versions/latest/sdk/router/#linkpreview) component to it. This will create a preview of the page that the link points to.
```

- Sometimes in this doc, the `<>` are not used. Let's be consistent about this.
- Lets add reference links for components.

  src="/static/images/expo-router/link-preview-custom-size.png"
  className="max-h-[400px]"
/>

### Custom preview

If you don't want to show the default preview, you can pass custom content to the `Link.Preview` component via children. This custom content will replace the default preview of the link target.

```tsx
export default function Page() {
  const [imageSize, setImageSize] = useState({ width: 0, height: 0 });
  const { width } = useWindowDimensions();
  const previewHeight = (width / imageSize.width) * imageSize.height;

  return (
    <Link href="/about">
      <Link.Trigger>About</Link.Trigger>
      <Link.Trigger>Content</Link.Trigger>
      <Link.Preview width={screenWidth} height={previewHeight}>
        <Image
          onLoad={e => setImageSize(e.nativeEvent.source)}
          source={source}
          style={{ width: '100%', height: '100%' }}
        />
      </Link.Preview>
    </Link>
  );
}
```

The following example shows a custom link preview on iOS:

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="A screenshot of a custom link preview."
  src="/static/images/expo-router/link-preview-custom-content.png"
  className="max-h-[400px]"
/>

## Menu

> To render a context menu next to the preview, add a `<Link.Menu>` with `<Link.MenuAction>` children.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To render a context menu next to the preview, add a [`Link.Menu`](/versions/latest/sdk/router/#linkmenu) with [`Link.MenuAction`](/versions/latest/sdk/router/#linkmenuaction) children.
```

  </Link.Menu>
</Link>
```

The following example shows a custom link preview on iOS:

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="A screenshot of an iOS context menu."
  src="/static/images/expo-router/link-preview-menu.png"
  className="max-h-[400px]"
/>

### Icons

You can specify an icon for each menu action using [SF Symbols](https://developer.apple.com/sf-symbols/).

```tsx
<Link href="/about">
  <Link.Trigger>About</Link.Trigger>
  <Link.Menu>
    <Link.MenuAction title="Share" icon="square.and.arrow.up" onPress={handleSharePress} />
    <Link.MenuAction title="Block" icon="nosign" onPress={handleBlockPress} />
    <Link.MenuAction
      title="Follow"
      icon="person.crop.circle.badge.plus"
      onPress={handleFollowPress}
    />
    <Link.MenuAction title="Copy" icon="doc.on.doc" onPress={handleCopyPress} />
  </Link.Menu>
</Link>
```

The following example shows a context menu with four elements, each using a different icon on iOS:

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="A screenshot of context menu with four elements."
  src="/static/images/expo-router/link-preview-icons.png"
  className="max-h-[400px]"
/>

### Nested menus

> You can nest menus by placing a `<Link.Menu>` inside another menu:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can nest menus by placing a `Link.Menu` inside another menu:
```

```jsx
<Link href="...">
  <Link.Trigger>About</Link.Trigger>
  <Link.Menu>
    <Link.MenuAction title="Share" icon="square.and.arrow.up" onPress={() => {}} />
    <Link.Menu title="More" icon="ellipsis">
      <Link.MenuAction title="Copy" icon="doc.on.doc" onPress={() => {}} />
      <Link.MenuAction title="Delete" icon="trash" destructive onPress={() => {}} />
    </Link.Menu>
  </Link.Menu>
</Link>
```

The following example shows a nested context menu on iOS:

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="A screenshot of a nested context menu."
  src="/static/images/expo-router/link-preview-nested-menu.png"
  className="max-h-[400px]"
/>

### More customization options

To explore all available customization options, see the API documentation for [`Link.MenuAction`](/versions/latest/sdk/router/#linkmenuaction).

## Detecting if component is in preview

> If you're building a component that might be rendered inside a preview, you can use the `useIsPreview()` hook to adjust its behavior accordingly:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're building a component that might be rendered inside a preview, you can use the [`useIsPreview()`](/versions/latest/sdk/router/#useispreview) hook to adjust its behavior accordingly:
```

```jsx
function MyComponent() {
  // This will be true if component/screen is being rendered inside a preview
  const isInsidePreview = useIsPreview();

  return isInsidePreview ? <Text>From within preview</Text> : <Text>I am outside of preview</Text>;
}
```

## Known limitations

> ### `replace` not Supported

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `replace` not supported
```

Using link previews with [`replace`](/versions/latest/sdk/router/#replace) mode is currently **not supported**. Previews can only be used with the default [`push`](/versions/latest/sdk/router/#push) navigation mode.

### JavaScript tabs and slots

> When navigating within JavaScript tabs (rather than native tabs) or `<Slot>`s, preview transition animations may appear clunky. This is due to React's delayed rendering while the native preview animation begins immediately. To prevent this issues use, native tabs and stack navigators.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When navigating within JavaScript tabs (rather than native tabs) or [`Slot`s](/versions/latest/sdk/router/#slot), preview transition animations may appear clunky. This is due to React's delayed rendering, while the native preview animation begins immediately. To prevent these issues, use native tabs and stack navigators.
```

> ### Missing `<Link.Trigger>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Missing `Link.Trigger`
```

> If you render a `<Link>` with a preview or context menu, but without a `<Link.Trigger>`, an exception will be thrown. The same applies if you place any non-`Link.*` component directly inside `<Link>` when using preview mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you render a `Link` with a preview or context menu, but without a `Link.Trigger`, an exception will be thrown. The same applies if you place any non-`Link.*` component directly inside `Link` when using preview mode.
```

> ### Multiple `<Link.Trigger>` children with `asChild` prop

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Multiple `Link.Trigger` children with `asChild` prop
```

> When using `Link` with `asChild`, you may only specify **one** child for `<Link.Trigger>`. The `onPress` event will be forwarded to that child only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using `Link` with `asChild`, you may only specify **one** child for `Link.Trigger`. The `onPress` event will be forwarded to that child only.
```

---
title: Link Preview
description: Learn how to add a preview to your link on iOS.

> hasVideoLink: false

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

It is `false` by default, let's remove it.

---

import { ContentSpotlight } from '~/ui/components/ContentSpotlight';

> import { FileTree } from '~/ui/components/FileTree';

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Since this is unused, let's remove it.

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="A video presenting the link preview feature in Expo Router."
  file="/expo-router/link-preview.mp4"
/>

> This guide will show you how to add and customize a link preview for your app on iOS. A link preview is a feature commonly used on iOS to show user a preview of the content linked by the link.

Reviewer 2: This should mention the iOS name of the feature: Peek and Pop https://developer.apple.com/documentation/UIKit/implementing-peek-and-pop

> This guide will show you how to add and customize a link preview for your app on iOS. A link preview is a feature commonly used on iOS to show user a preview of the content linked by the link.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This guide will show you how to add iOS link previews to your app. A link preview (also known as "Peek and Pop") is a feature commonly used on iOS to show users a preview popup of the screen for a link.
```

Author: In my opinion there is no one good place to link to. The peek-and-pop as itself is deprecated and is now part of context menu interaction

> This guide will show you how to add and customize a link preview for your app on iOS. A link preview is a feature commonly used on iOS to show user a preview of the content linked by the link.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A link preview is a feature commonly used on iOS to show users a preview of the content linked by the link. This guide will show you how to add and customize a link preview for your app on iOS. 
```

We need to define what the feature is, and then we can talk about it in the context of this guide.

> If you have a link in your app, you can add preview by simply wrapping the link content with `<Link.Trigger>` component and adding `<Link.Preview>` component. This will create a preview of the page that the link points to.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have a link in your app, you can add link preview to it by replacing the link's content with a `<Link.Trigger>` and adding the `<Link.Preview>` component to it. This will create a preview of the page that the link points to.
```

**Note:** I've changed the noun here from "preview" to "link preview", we should be consistent about what we call it, but I don't have an opinion on the exact term

- nit: Removing "simply"
- nit: wrapping wasn't accurate, since we're adding the components to the link's contents or children

Reviewer 3: > If you have a link in your app, you can add link preview to it by replacing 

should be

> If you have a link in your app, you can add a link preview to it by replacing

```tsx
import { Link } from 'expo-router';

export default function Page() {
  return (
    <Link href="/about">
      <Link.Trigger>About</Link.Trigger>
      <Link.Preview />
    </Link>
  );
}
```

> ## New components

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Components
```

It will be only "new" in the context of publishing this doc, but when the feature turns old, it is not new. We should consider this to write documentation to be ever green as much as we can.

> ### Link.Trigger

Reviewer 2: @amandeepmittal: Should this use the `PaddedAPIBox` component?

Author: I think @amandeepmittal is right here. This is all described in the API Reference

> A wrapper for the link's trigger. Anything that was previously passed as a child to `<Link>` should now be wrapped inside `<Link.Trigger>` when using `<Link.Preview>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A wrapper for the link's displayed content. Anything that was previously passed as a child to `<Link>` should now be wrapped inside `<Link.Trigger>` when adding a link preview.
```

- nit: ~~trigger~~ -> displayed content. I believe this is more intuitive.
- Removed `Link.Preview` mention here, since it could be confusing without a code sample.

### Link.Preview

> Enables the link preview. You can customize its behavior and appearance. For more information see the section below on customizing previews.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Enables the link preview. You can customize its behavior and appearance. For more information see the section below on [customizing link previews](#customizing-link-previews).
```

```tsx
export default function Page() {
  return (
    <Link href="/about">
      <Link.Trigger>About</Link.Trigger>
      <Link.Preview />
    </Link>
  );
}
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The following example shows a link preview looks on an iOS device:

```

Let's add the missing context.

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="A screenshot of an iOS link preview."
  src="/static/images/expo-router/link-preview-preview.png"
  className="max-h-[400px]"
/>

> ### Link.Menu & Link.MenuAction

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Link.Menu and Link.MenuAction
```

We avoid symbols as per our writing style guide: https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/guides/Expo%20Documentation%20Writing%20Style%20Guide.md#symbols-as-words

> Enables the context menu. Use `<Link.Menu>` as a container and `<Link.MenuAction>` for individual menu items.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Adds a context menu, which displays additional shortcut actions next to the preview popup. Use `<Link.Menu>` as a container and `<Link.MenuAction>` for individual menu items.
```

- Added a short description of what the context menu is

```tsx
<Link href="/about">
  <Link.Trigger>About</Link.Trigger>
  <Link.Menu>
    <Link.MenuAction title="Share" icon="square.and.arrow.up" onPress={handleSharePress} />
    <Link.MenuAction title="Block" icon="nosign" destructive onPress={handleBlockPress} />
  </Link.Menu>
</Link>
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The following example shows a context menu on an iOS device:

```

Same as previous.

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="A screenshot of an iOS context menu."
  src="/static/images/expo-router/link-preview-menu.png"
  className="max-h-[400px]"
/>

> ## Customizing the preview

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Customizing link previews
```

By default, the preview is rendered as a full-sized page snapshot. There are several ways to customize this behavior.

### Custom size

You can use the `width` and `height` props to suggest a preferred preview size. The system will consider these preferences but may override them based on available space or platform behavior.

```tsx
<Link href="...">
  <Link.Trigger>Content</Link.Trigger>
  <Link.Preview height="" />
</Link>
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The following example shows a custom link preview size on iOS:

```

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="A screenshot of a custom link preview size."
  src="/static/images/expo-router/link-preview-custom-size.png"
  className="max-h-[400px]"
/>

### Custom preview

> If you don't want to show the default preview, you can pass custom content to the `<Link.Preview>` component via children. This custom content will replace the default preview of the link target.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you don't want to show the default preview, you can pass custom content to the `Link.Preview` component via children. This custom content will replace the default preview of the link target.
```

We reserver `<ComponentName>` pattern for common React Native components. So let's avoid `<>` for our own.

```tsx
const [imageSize, setImageSize] = useState({ width: 0, height: 0 });
const { width } = useWindowDimensions();
const previewHeight = (width / imageSize.width) * imageSize.height;

> <Link href="...">

Reviewer: ```suggestion

// Inside a component
<Link href="...">
```

  <Link.Trigger>Content</Link.Trigger>
  <Link.Preview width={screenWidth} height={previewHeight}>
    <Image
      onLoad={e => setImageSize(e.nativeEvent.source)}
      source={source}
      style={{ width: '100%', height: '100%' }}
    />
  </Link.Preview>

> </Link>;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
</Link>
```

```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The following example shows a custom link preview on iOS:

```

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="A screenshot of a custom link preview."
  src="/static/images/expo-router/link-preview-custom-content.png"
  className="max-h-[400px]"
/>

## Menu

> To render the context menu below the preview, use `Link.Menu`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To render a context menu next to the preview, add a `<Link.Menu>` with `<Link.MenuItem>` children.
```

I think iOS sometimes decides to render it above? Either way, I'd just say "next to" to future proof this

```tsx
<Link href="/about">
  <Link.Trigger>About</Link.Trigger>
  <Link.Menu>
    <Link.MenuAction title="Share" icon="square.and.arrow.up" onPress={handleSharePress} />
    <Link.MenuAction title="Block" icon="nosign" destructive onPress={handleBlockPress} />
  </Link.Menu>
</Link>
```

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="A screenshot of an iOS context menu."
  src="/static/images/expo-router/link-preview-menu.png"
  className="max-h-[400px]"
/>

### Icons

> You can specify an icon for each menu action using SF Symbols

Reviewer 2: Do we have a good link for SF Symbols?

> You can specify an icon for each menu action using SF Symbols

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can specify an icon for each menu action using [SF Symbols](https://developer.apple.com/sf-symbols/).
```

Missing period.

```tsx
<Link href="/about">
  <Link.Trigger>About</Link.Trigger>
  <Link.Menu>
    <Link.MenuAction title="Share" icon="square.and.arrow.up" onPress={handleSharePress} />
    <Link.MenuAction title="Block" icon="nosign" onPress={handleBlockPress} />
    <Link.MenuAction
      title="Follow"
      icon="person.crop.circle.badge.plus"
      onPress={handleFollowPress}
    />
    <Link.MenuAction title="Copy" icon="doc.on.doc" onPress={handleCopyPress} />
  </Link.Menu>
</Link>
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The following example shows a context menu with four elements on iOS:

```

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="A screenshot of context menu with four elements."
  src="/static/images/expo-router/link-preview-icons.png"
  className="max-h-[400px]"
/>

### Nested menus

You can nest menus by placing a `<Link.Menu>` inside another menu:

```jsx
<Link href="...">
  <Link.Trigger>About</Link.Trigger>
  <Link.Menu>
    <Link.MenuAction title="Share" icon="square.and.arrow.up" onPress={() => {}} />
    <Link.Menu title="More" icon="ellipsis">
      <Link.MenuAction title="Copy" icon="doc.on.doc" onPress={() => {}} />
      <Link.MenuAction title="Delete" icon="trash" destructive onPress={() => {}} />
    </Link.Menu>
  </Link.Menu>
</Link>
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The following example shows a nested contxt menu on iOS:

```

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="A screenshot of a nested context menu."
  src="/static/images/expo-router/link-preview-nested-menu.png"
  className="max-h-[400px]"
/>

### More customization options

> To explore all available customization options, refer to the API documentation for [`<Link.MenuAction>`](/versions/latest/sdk/router/#linkmenuaction).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To explore all available customization options, see the API documentation for [`<Link.MenuAction>`](/versions/latest/sdk/router/#linkmenuaction).
```

Let's be concise.

## Detecting if component is in preview

If you're building a component that might be rendered inside a preview, you can use the `useIsPreview()` hook to adjust its behavior accordingly:

```jsx

> const isInsidePreview = useIsPreview();
> // This will be true if component/screen is being rendered inside a preview
> return isInsidePreview ? <Text>From Preview</Text> : <Text>I am outside of preview</Text>;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
const isInsidePreview = useIsPreview();
// This will be true if component/screen is being rendered inside a preview
return isInsidePreview ? <Text>From Preview</Text> : <Text>I am outside of preview</Text>;
```
```suggestion
const isInsidePreview = useIsPreview();

// This will be true if component/screen is being rendered inside a preview
return isInsidePreview ? <Text>From Preview</Text> : <Text>I am outside of preview</Text>;
```

```

## Known limitations

### `replace` not Supported

The combination of link preview with `replace` mode is currently **not supported**. Previews can only be used with the default `push` navigation mode.

> ### JS Tabs and slots

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### JavaScript Tabs and slots
```

> When navigating within JS-driven tabs or slots, preview transition animations may appear clunky. This is due to React's delayed rendering while the native preview animation begins immediately. To prevent this issues use native tabs and stack.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When navigating within JavaScript tabs (rather than native tabs) or `<Slot>`s, preview transition animations may appear clunky. This is due to React's delayed rendering while the native preview animation begins immediately. To prevent this issues use the native tabs and stack.
```

Reviewer 3: > To prevent this issues use the native tabs and stack.

should be 

> To prevent this issue, use native tab and stack navigators.

### Missing `<Link.Trigger>`

> If you render `<Link>` with a preview or context menu, but without `<Link.Trigger>`, an exception will be thrown. The same applies if you place any non-`Link.*` component directly inside `<Link>` when using preview mode.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you render a `<Link>` with a preview or context menu, but without a `<Link.Trigger>`, an exception will be thrown. The same applies if you place any non-`Link.*` component directly inside `<Link>` when using preview mode.
```

### Multiple `<Link.Trigger>` children with `asChild` prop

When using `Link` with `asChild`, you may only specify **one** child for `<Link.Trigger>`. The `onPress` event will be forwarded to that child only.

### Changing href while preview is open

> Changing the path in the `href` prop is **not supported**, while the preview is open. You may, however, modify the query parameters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Changing `href` prop's path dynamically while the preview is open is **not supported**. You may only modify the query parameters dynamically.
```
